if you clicked on this video it's likely
because you want to grow your Instagram
in 2024 and also I'm going to assume
that maybe you haven't had the best luck
growing so far or maybe you had some
success in the past but the strategies
that you're using just aren't providing
the same results and I'm going to go out
on a limb here and guess that one of the
strategies you're using to grow on
Instagram is hashtags and even if that's
not one of the strategies that you're
using to grow on Instagram that's most
likely something that you've heard you
need to use this number of hashtags you
have to use this kind of hashtags and
hashtags are absolutely essential for
growing but honestly that's not true and
that's why in today's episode I'm going
to be sharing with you my top tips for
SEO and keywords in order to get more
reach results and engagement on your
Instagram in
2024 for those of you who don't know me
my name is Brock Johnson and it's my job
to help you grow on Instagram I've
personally grown my own following by
over 600,000 followers and I've helped
tens of thousands of our insta clubhub
members grow their accounts as well I've
personally been an Instagram coach for
about seven or eight years now and
there's definitely been a lot of changes
over that time one of the biggest
changes if not the biggest change on
Instagram in regards to how you grow
your following is in regards to hashtags
when I first got started with this
Instagram coaching business one of my
primary courses that is no longer
available was called help with hashtags
and in fact that was my bestselling
course not because I had great marketing
or because I had some Secret Sauce but
because hashtags were popular and back
in 2016 2017 and 2018 hashtags were a
real essential way that you could grow
on Instagram you could if you were using
the right hashtags strategically grow
your following and increase your
engagement pretty reliably there was a
noticeable difference when you were
using hashtags versus when you weren't
and so it was true for many years that
if you wanted to grow your following and
build a business on Instagram you had to
have an excellent hashtag strategy and
now before we go any further let me just
say that hashtags absolutely can still
be effective in fact just a few weeks
ago on build your tribe we released an
episode that I did about how to use
hashtags effectively and I shared some
of my top tips and strategies but what I
said in that episode and what I will
repeat to you right now is that although
they used to be extremely effective and
reliable and they can still be effective
they are no longer as reliable and they
are no longer something that are Make It
or Break It for your Instagram and to be
completely honest unless you are using
ban hashtags or you are egregiously or
maliciously using a really really bad
hashtag strategy like you're spamming
hashtags or you're using hashtags in
some sort of like inauthentic way that's
going to get you blocked and go against
Instagram's Community guidelines you're
probably not going to have a negative
side effect there's probably not going
to be any negative outcome for using
hashtags however with that being said I
do believe that a lot of people focus on
hashtags they stress out over hashtags
and they spend a lot of time energy
resources even money to try to get the
perfect hashtag list and I do think that
that can indirectly lead to negative
results not because of the hash tags
necessarily but because the time you're
spending the energy the resources you're
spending on creating that perfect list
could be better spent on other areas
such as creating higher quality content
increasing your quantity of content or
focusing on other areas of your business
where you're going to see a better
return on investment than stressing out
over your hashtags so if you're someone
who doesn't put very much time energy or
effort into your hashtags yet you see
results from them by all means don't let
me stop you keep using them but if
you're someone who stresses out over
them who spends multiple minutes if not
hours every single week researching
hashtags and trying to come up with the
perfect list for every post and you feel
like you can't post your post until you
get this perfect list of hashtags ready
well then I want to give you the Freedom
by relieving you of that responsibility
in fact earlier this year the social
media company HootSuite did a study
where they posted multiple posts that
were essentially the exact same content
and all they did was change the amount
of hashtags placed on the post three of
the posts had only three hashtags and
the other three posts had 30 hashtags
which for those of you who don't know
that's the maximum amount of hashtags
you can use you can use up to 30
hashtags on every feed post and what
hoot saw was almost zero noticeable
difference between the two different
categories whether used three or 30 they
only saw a slight increase for the group
that used significantly more hashtags so
that in and of itself that study shows
us even though it's not a super
widespread or diverse study that does
give us an idea of the ineffectiveness
or at least the unreliability of has
hashtags another clue that we have that
hashtags are less of a central growth
strategy on Instagram in 2024 is that
they have completely gotten rid of the
recents category within hashtags it used
to be that when you would look up a
hashtag on Instagram there would be two
separate categories one for top posts
and one for recents posts the recent
posts was literally anyone who had ever
used that hashtag in Reverse
chronological order so you could see
everyone who's recently used it but
Instagram recently got rid of that Adam
maery the CEO of Instagram on on his
Instagram stories said that it was
because people were abusing the recent
section they were spamming hashtags in
order to dominate those sections and it
just became too much for Instagram as a
company as a staff to keep up with and
to keep an eye on all the millions of
different hashtags so they just decided
as a policy to remove that feature
altogether which means you can now only
get discovered on a hashtag if your post
becomes one of the top posts within that
hashtag so that alone significantly
decreases the likelihood of being being
discovered and the challenges presented
around getting extra engagement or reach
or views from using those hashtags so
with all that being said what the heck
are you supposed to do how are you
supposed to get discovered the answer is
keywords now what the heck is a keyword
a keyword you know there's a lot of
different definitions there's you could
get lost in the SEO mumbo jumbo of
website design blog writing copywriting
all that good stuff but essentially a
keyword is a word that people would be
looking for in order to to discover you
so let's think about some keywords that
might relate to this episode that you're
watching or listening to right now some
keywords that relate to this episode are
Instagram hashtags Instagram SEO growing
on Instagram growing your following
Instagram keywords getting discovered
those sorts of things those are keywords
or keyword phrases that relate to this
episode and I know we might struggle to
come up with some keywords so in just a
second I'll give you four different ways
that you can come up with keywords but
once you come up with them I will Al
give you the eight different areas of
Instagram where you can include these
keywords and before we even get into any
of this it's important to recognize that
a big reason that Instagram hashtags are
less effective now in 2024 than they
were in the past is that the Instagram
artificial intelligence the algorithms
that run Instagram have become much more
intelligent and they're able to scan and
read and look at a wide variety of
factors to help categorize our posts so
in the past Instagram needed you to put
put # Pizza on your picture of a pizza
in order to tell that this was a picture
of a pizza and then show it to people
who were looking up # pizza but now
Instagram doesn't need us to add these
hashtags in order to categorize our
content instead the computer and the
artificial intelligence these algorithms
can look at the photo of a pizza and say
that's a photo of a pizza they can read
our caption and not even look at the
hashtags just literally read the plain
text in our caption and say oh hey this
person was talking about a cheese pizza
that they got in New York City and they
are able to and when I say they of
course I'm referring to the computers
they're able to figure out what our
posts are about basically over the last
decade plus Instagram has gotten a lot
better at doing its job so they no
longer have to rely on us to do that for
them and that's why hashtags were
originally created that's why they were
invented they weren't invented as a
marketing tool hashtags were invented as
a categorization tool so that people
could categorize and tag their posts but
now not only has Instagram improved all
of these backend computers that can
figure out what your posts are about
they they have done this strategically
because they know that Instagram is one
of the world's biggest search engines
people under the age of 25 use Instagram
and Tik Tok to search for things more
than Google and if you include YouTube
with that duo so you have YouTube
Instagram and Tik Tok those three
combined to make up the world's biggest
search engine plus even if you're
listening to this and you're like well
that's not me I still use Google to look
things up or that's not my demographic
my demographic is 65 plus and we still
look up things on the internet well when
you look up things on Google oftentimes
you're going to get results from Tik Tok
or from Instagram or from Facebook or
from YouTube and so including these
keywords these terms in your social
media content and specifically what
we're talking about today is including
them in your Instagram content it allows
you to show up not just in Instagram
search but more broadly in Google and
just general internet searches but again
let's go back to this topic of keywords
because it's the keywords that are going
to make the difference and for this to
work for keywords to actually provide a
benefit for you
you need to empathize with your
customers and to stand on my little soap
box for just a second I think one of the
greatest and most underrated skills that
any entrepreneur any business owner any
social media Creator can have is empathy
for their ideal customer or follower the
better you can empathize with your ideal
customer or follower the better content
you can create because then the content
you're creating is speaking directly to
them you're able to solve their problems
talk about their issues address their
concerns and these are concerns not only
that they have these are concerns and
problems and issues that they know they
have and I feel like often times us
content creators or entrepreneurs we
fall into this trap where we are
creating content for what we think their
problem is or even what we know their
problem is but it's a problem that they
don't know they have and so if you are
making content that is addressing a
problem that they don't know that they
have or that they don't even have at all
they're not going to pay attention
they're not going to listen and that can
extend into whatever kind of content you
create it doesn't just have to to be
problemsolving content if it's making
jokes right like humor memes that sort
of relatable content if you can't
empathize with your ideal follower or
customer then you're going to be
creating relatable content that's only
relatable to you and only makes sense to
you but kind of Falls flat to them being
able to empathize with them is how you
create better offers better products and
better solutions for your customers and
it's also a skill and I call it a skill
because I do think it's something that
can be trained and something that you
can improve upon but it's a skill that
once you have it will allow you to
seamlessly without even thinking about
it include keywords and words that they
would be looking up words that they
would understand words that they would
be searching for in your copyrighting in
your content in your scripts and in your
posts but it's not something that
everyone is great at and ultimately even
if you are great at it it's often times
very nice to be able to use some of
these Advanced data analytics tools that
exist on on the internet to confirm what
you were thinking or just help you if
you're struggling with the creativity of
coming up with keywords and again just
to remind you a keyword or keyword
phrase is any word or combination of
words that your ideal audience would be
searching for in order to find you and
your Niche so my four ways that you can
easily come up with keywords for your
social media is number one good old chat
GPT go over to chat GPT and you can
either reverse this prompt by telling
chat GPT hey chat gbt I need you to help
me come up with a series of keywords for
Instagram before doing so please ask me
questions to better understand my
Instagram content and my Instagram
audience then chat gbt will ask you a
series of questions when you answer
those questions it will give you a
series of keywords or you could just use
a simple prompt for chat GPT telling it
that you need its help in creating
keywords for your Instagram your
Instagram is about X Y and Z your
average follower is insert their
demographics you could talk more about
who your ideal audience audience is what
your goals are on Instagram and then
theoretically chat GPT will give you at
least some decent starters for potential
keywords that you could include in your
social media content my second tool that
I'm going to recommend for you and this
is one of my favorites that I've been
recommending for years is called answer
theu go to
answerthepublic.com and you can type in
a keyword or two of your own that
describe your industry or your Niche so
I might do Instagram growth you might do
beginner rock climbing or cake baking or
skiing tips or whatever it may be then
when you hit enter answer the public
will give you every single top search
result broken down by different
categories so it will give you the top
search result for beginner skier that
starts with the word how so how to dress
for a beginner skier or how to learn to
ski for beginners all of those it will
give you everything in alphabetical
order so any search query that starts
with the letter a and includes beginner
skier so a beginner ski hill things like
that it is insane how much data they
give you at the time of recording this I
believe you get three free queries per
day but really you should only need
maybe one or two to type in the main
keyword that describes your industry
it's a very very useful tool because
it's literally giving you the data from
Google to help you figure out what
people are actually searching for and
quick little sidebar not only is this
great for keywords and figuring out what
phrases to include in your posts this is
great to just come up with your posts in
general because these are literally the
things that people are looking up
because these are the things that people
want to know another awesome tool that
was designed exactly for what we are
talking about today is called
keywordtool.io you can visit that
website and it will give you a big list
of keywords it also includes their
strength their popularity all that good
stuff that you might want to know highly
recommend that tool and then the fourth
tool that I'm going to share with you is
by semrush semrush has their own keyword
tool you can go to semrush.com or just
Google it and you should be able to find
sem Rush's keyword tool all four of
these tools are very helpful for you in
coming up with the phrases and words to
include in your posts but speaking of
including them in your posts there are
different areas that you should include
them and even areas outside of your post
itself where you should be including
these phrases and these keywords in
order to be discovered more by your
audience that's number one but number
two when your audience does discover you
they're able to see the words that
they're searching for the words that
they are looking up the problems that
they know they have and then they're
more likely to follow you or engage with
your content because it's clear to them
you are essentially making jokes that
make sense to them you're addressing
problems that they know that they have
and so they are more likely to engage
and or follow I'm sure you've had an
experience before where you saw
someone's post you thought it was super
funny or super educational or whatever
and you're like this is great and you
tapped on their bio and then you read
through their bio and you're like oh my
gosh it feels like this person was made
for me it feels like this person is
speaking directly to me and you press
follow and at the same time you've
probably had the opposite happen where
you saw a great post something that was
super relatable or inspirational or
educational and you clicked on their
page and their bio just kind of rambled
on about how many kids they have and how
many fur babies they have and what their
astrological sign is and how they're a
black belt and this thing and it's like
I don't really care about any of that I
came here for this one specific post
that you made but now I can see that
that's not really your thing that's not
really your area you don't really appeal
to me so that was a great post but
that's kind of where it stops and really
the difference between the two is yes
the second person person isn't
continuing to post about the same topic
Allah they're not posting about the same
Niche but also it's the keywords it's
the phrases and the terms that that
person is using in their content in
their bio Etc that is telling you
whether that person really knows their
stuff or not so with all that being said
I have eight different areas where you
can be thoughtful about including your
keywords again you're going to use those
four tools well really five if you
include the tool of your own empathy
you're going to use those five Tools in
order to come up with keywords keywords
that relate to your content keywords
that relate to your account keywords
that relate to what you do and then
you're going to include them in the
following eight areas in order to
improve your searchability and thus grow
your following reach more people and
boost your engagement in 2024 area
number one is in your spoken audio so
first and foremost you should be doing
direct to camera reels just like I am
recording this podcast right now
directly into the mic directly into the
camera your followers want to hear your
voice they don't just want to see you
lipsyncing trending audios they don't
want to just see b-roll background
videos of you working at your desk with
some pretty music and some inspirational
text on the screen they want to hear
your voice they want to build that trust
with you and they want to get to know
you and when you are recording with your
voice when you are doing these spoken
audio direct to camera reels you should
be thoughtful about the words that you
are using because yes Instagram is
listening Instagram is literally
transcribing what you are saying and
it's able to use that information to
categorize your content and thus show it
to the right people so when you are
writing your scripts for your reals make
sure to include your keywords or if you
use some sort of script writing tool
make sure you give that tool your
keyword so that it can make sure to
include some of those keywords and
phrases into your scripts the second
area to include keywords is in the
onscreen text whether it's the text that
pops up throughout your real or if you
have like an infographic or a text post
or a carousel post with lots of
different text on the screen maybe you
made it in canva or whatever just make
sure that at least on some of those
pages or at least some of the text that
is showing up and visible on the screen
make sure that those are keywords now I
am not saying to just pop a bunch of
keywords into the last slide of your
Carousel like you made a 10 slide
Carousel and then on slide 10 you're
putting like a list of a 100 different
keywords and phrases that you think your
audience would be looking up that's not
what I'm saying what I'm saying to do
instead is to organically massage those
keywords into the actual content so
earlier I gave you a list of ideas of
keywords that might relate to this
episode some of those keywords were
Instagram hashtags Instagram growth
Instagram keywords Instagram SEO get
discovered grow on Instagram and all of
those phrases are phrases that I have
organically said in this episode I
haven't just typed out a long list of
keywords down in the show notes or in
the description I have literally said
them in this episode just like I'm
recommending you do the same with your
Instagram post
organically speak or say the keywords
mix them in to the sentences and phrases
that you are saying and mix them in to
the onscreen text also speaking of
onscreen text there is this rumor flying
around Instagram every time I say that I
feel like that scene from Elf where
they're like there's a rumor going
around that the parents do it but
anyways I digress there's a rumor going
around on Instagram a madeup strategy
that some people say works that when you
record your real you should do the
opposite of of what I just said which is
take a list of your hashtags or take a
list of your keywords paste them onto
the real and then make them like really
really really really really small so
that no one can really read them and
make them the same color as the
background so that they blend in so then
no one really knows that those keywords
are there but the algorithm can read
them and then the algorithm can detect
that and make sure to show you to more
people and listen I think it's a good
idea and it's definitely something that
sure go ahead you can test it I'm sure
some people have had results but every
time we've tested it and we've tested
this well over a dozen times on a wide
variety of counts now we have not gotten
any sort of conclusive results so if
what I just described doesn't even make
sense to you forget about it if what I
just described to you is something that
you're doing and it's not working again
forget about it if it's something that
you're doing and it is working then go
ahead and keep doing it but I know that
rumor is flying around and maybe you had
that question when you showed up to
listen to this podcast today but from
what we found there is no conclusive
evidence that suggests that add adding a
list of hashtags or a list of keywords
to your real then pinching it down to
making it super small and making it
blend in with the background is going to
give you any sort of noticeable bump or
engagement boost all right moving on now
the third way that you can include SEO
and keywords in your posts is in the
caption itself where in the past you
used to have to write your caption and
then include your hashtags maybe at the
bottom of your caption now you can just
include those keywords and those phrases
organically into the actual sentences
and words and phrases that you're using
in your caption and that's good enough
and again remember Instagram is scanning
all of this in fact there was one report
that Instagram tracks over get this
50,000 different data points on every
single post that means they're looking
at a lot more than just the hashtags
that you copy and paste it they're also
moving on to number four the fourth area
to include SEO and keywords is they're
looking at your comments they're looking
at what other people are commenting on
your post and what you are commenting in
response to those people so let's say I
make a post about becoming a barber and
I get a bunch of comments from people
within my community asking me questions
about what's the best shaving kit to use
what's the best cream to use what kind
of uh barber school did I go to I don't
know if any of these terms are right I
just got my haircut so this is on my
mind but Instagram is able to read all
of those comments from myself and from
everyone else in my community and that
helps give Instagram an idea as to what
my content is about and thus whom my
content should be shown to too all right
so all of those first four are related
to your post right it's the spoken audio
the onscreen text which I should add
includes the closed captioning the
actual caption below your post and the
comments that are left in the comment
section all four of those relate to your
actual content but there are also other
areas of your Instagram profile that can
also benefit from having keywords and
SEO optimization or I guess it's just
SEO because SEO stands for search engine
optimization I haven't said that already
but in case you were wondering that's
what SEO stands for all right moving on
the fifth different area where you can
include keywords and improve your SEO is
in your actual bio now a few years ago
Instagram gave us the ability to add
hashtags to our bio but then very
quickly after that they made the entire
bio somewhat searchable so unfortunately
every single word that you type in your
bio is not directly searchable if I type
peanut butter cupcake in my bio and you
search peanut butter cupcake you're not
going to directly and immediately find
my account but if I were to include
peanut butter cupcake in my bio that
would help Instagram suggest me when
people are looking that up I hope that
distinction makes sense I know that
might be a little bit confusing
basically the words in your bio are not
directly searchable but they do Aid
Instagram in general in categorizing
your account so all of this being said
that's why my fifth tip for you or my
fifth area where you should consider the
keywords and the phrases that you're
using is in your bio in your bio you
don't want to be using Insider lingo
terms that you've made up Expressions
that only really make sense to you you
want to use phrases and keywords in
terms that are known and searched for by
your ideal customer or follower base one
area of your profile that is directly
and 100% searchable And this one might
be the most overlooked area of your
entire Instagram profile in regards to
your searchability and discoverability
is what I like to call your Instagram
title your Instagram title technically
is what's known as your Instagram name
it's the Bold text right below your
profile picture when you are looking at
your Instagram profile and because this
is called your Instagram name most
people just put their first and last
name on this line however anything you
put on this line is directly searchable
if I put peanut butter cupcake on my
Instagram title line or on my Instagram
name line then anyone who searched
peanut butter cupcake on Instagram would
immediately find me and earlier this
year Instagram actually expanded this
line they didn't really tell anyone
about this but they expanded it from I
believe what used to be 36 characters to
now 54 characters which means that you
can now add a lot more to that line you
could theoretically add your name and
add your searchable title or keyword
terms that you want to make sure you
have on there so that you can be
discovered so if you take a look at my
Instagram on my Instagram name line AKA
my Instagram title it says Instagram
growth coach so that anyone who's
looking to grow on Instagram and is
looking for an Instagram growth coach
when they search that when they look up
that keyword term they will find me so
you have homework from this episode and
that homework is if you get nothing else
from today's episode I want you to fix
your Instagram title AKA your Instagram
name the line where right now you
probably have just your first and last
name maybe you have some emojis or some
random terms I want you to really take a
close look at that line and make sure
that it includes either some sort of
title for yourself or some sort of
keywords that relate to your account and
whether it's a title or keywords that
relate to your account we need to make
sure that those terms are searchable and
are searched for at a relatively high
volume by your ideal follower or
customer speaking of your profile the
one last area that I think you might
have already assumed is searchable and
where you might want to include keywords
is in your username itself so if I
didn't already have a following and if I
wasn't already known as Brock 11 Johnson
I might consider changing my Instagram
username to Instagram coach Brock or
Brock uncore Instagram guy or Brock IG
growth coach or Brock orig coach so that
I could include those keywords in my
username and thus improve or increase
the likelihood of myself being
discovered when people are looking for
someone like me so that was number seven
the eighth and final area where you can
include these keyword terms and phrases
is none other than your hashtags again
we've already talked about hashtags
enough in in this episode but I have
often found that people use hashtags
that are way too broad way too generic
or they go to the upsite in the Spectrum
they're way too specific they're way too
hyper niched and so no one is even
looking those things up hashtags on
Instagram were the original keywords so
now as we move into this phase where
keywords are more broadly applicable and
you can include them in more areas yeah
go ahead and make sure to include them
in your hashtags as well and if you want
to learn more about hashtags I highly
recommend checking out the episode to
build your tribe that we did just a few
weeks ago giving you all of my best tips
and strategies around finding your ideal
list making sure that your hashtags
aren't too big aren't too small avoiding
the biggest pitfalls or mistakes of
hashtags and just overall how to use
them to actually see effective results
in 2024 thank you so much for listening
and or watching today I appreciate you
and I'll see you next
[Music]
time
oh